re-write velocity plugin messaging docs (#245)
PaperMC/docs: docs/velocity/dev/api/plugin-messaging.md

---
slug: /dev/plugin-messaging
description: How to handle and send plugin messages on Velocity.
---

# Plugin Messaging

First introduced in [2012](https://web.archive.org/web/20220711204310/https://dinnerbone.com/blog/2012/01/13/minecraft-plugin-channels-messaging/),
Plugin messaging is a way for Velocity plugins to communicate with clients and backend servers. 

> Velocity manages connections in both directions,
> for both the client and backend server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Velocity manages connections in both directions, for both the client and backend server.
```

> Velocity manages connections in both directions,
> for both the client and backend server.
> 
> This means Velocity plugins need to consider 4 main cases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Velocity manages connections in both directions, for both the client and backend server. This means Velocity
plugins need to consider 4 main cases:
```

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    player -->|"1 (Incoming)"| velocity -->|"2 (Outgoing)"| backend
    backend -->|"3 (Incoming)"| velocity -->|"4 (Outgoing)"| player
```

> Additionally, BungeeCord channel compatability is included, which may remove the need for a companion velocity plugin certain cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, BungeeCord compatibility is included, which may remove the need for a companion Velocity plugin in certain cases.
```

Author: i specifically included "channel" as other aspects aren't compatible (i.e plugins)

Reviewer: cool beans, just apply the rest of the diff please and thanks 🙏

## Case 1: Receiving a Plugin Message from a Player

> When you need to handle or inspect the contents of a plugin message sent by a player.
> 
> This requires registering with the ChannelRegistrar for the event to be fired.
> 
> An example use might be logging messages from a mod that reports what features are enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is for when you need to handle or inspect the contents of a plugin message sent by a player. You must register with the ChannelRegistrar for the event to be fired. An example use case could be logging messages from a mod that reports the enabled features.
```

Too many newlines - too disjointed (this might not have changed i just didn't like it :))

```java
public static final MinecraftChannelIdentifier IDENTIFIER = MinecraftChannelIdentifier.from("custom:main");

@Subscribe
public void onProxyInitialization(ProxyInitializeEvent event) {
    proxyServer.getChannelRegistrar().register(IDENTIFIER);
}

@Subscribe
public void onPluginMessageFromPlayer(PluginMessageEvent event) {
    if (!(event.getSource() instanceof Player)) {
        return;
    }

>     Player player = (Player) event.getSource();

Author: same as above

    // Ensure the identifier is what you expect before trying to handle the data
    if (event.getIdentifier() != IDENTIFIER) {
        return;
    }
    
    ByteArrayDataInput in = ByteStreams.newDataInput(event.getData());
    // handle packet data
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Case 2: Sending a Plugin Message to a Backend Server

> When you need to send a message to a backend server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is for when you need to send a message to a backend server.
```

There are two methods to send a plugin message to the backend, depending on what you need to achieve

:::warning

> When Listening for these messages on a backend server, ensure you are actually talking to an (allowed) instance of your proxy plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When listening for these messages on a backend server, ensure you are actually talking to an (allowed) instance of your proxy plugin.
```

Reviewer 2: this sentence doesn't make a whole lot of sense

Author: is this better?

If you don't, you run the risk that these can be spoofed by a player with a modded client.

:::

> ### Using any connected Player

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using any connected player
```

This is useful if you just want to communicate something relevant to the entire server,
or otherwise can be derived from its content.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

An example use might be telling the server to shut down.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```java
public boolean sendPluginMessageToBackend(RegisteredServer server, ChannelIdentifier identifier, byte[] data) {
    boolean success = server.sendPluginMessage(identifier, data);

>     return success;

Author: I separated that so it explicitly says that it returns if it is successful, but I should probably include that in the docs itself

>     return success;

Reviewer: i'd inline it and just add a comment explaining. Ditto for the rest as well

}
```

### Using a specific player's connection

This is useful if you want to communicate something about a specific player to their current backend server.
You may want additional checks to ensure it will be handled correctly on the backend the player is on.

An example use might be telling the backend server to give the player a specific item.

```java
public boolean sendPluginMessageToBackendUsingPlayer(Player player, ChannelIdentifier identifier, byte[] data) {
    Optional<ServerConnection> connection = player.getCurrentServer();
    boolean success = false;
    if (connection.isPresent()) {

>         success = connection.get().serverConnection.sendPluginMessage(identifier, data);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        success = connection.get().sendPluginMessage(identifier, data);
```

    }
    return success;
}
```

## Case 3: Receiving a Plugin Message from a Backend server

> When you need to Receive messages from your backend server.
> 
> This requires registering with the ChannelRegistrar for the event to be fired.
> 
> An example use might be handing a request to transfer the player to another server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is for when you need to receive messages from your backend server. It will require registering with the ChannelRegistrar for the event to be fired.

An example use might be handing a request to transfer the player to another server.
```

```java
public static final MinecraftChannelIdentifier IDENTIFIER = MinecraftChannelIdentifier.from("custom:main");

@Subscribe
public void onProxyInitialization(ProxyInitializeEvent event) {
    proxyServer.getChannelRegistrar().register(IDENTIFIER);
}

@Subscribe
public void onPluginMessageFromBackend(PluginMessageEvent event) {
    if (!(event.getSource() instanceof ServerConnection)) {
        return;
    }
    ServerConnection backend = (ServerConnection) event.getSource();
    // Ensure the identifier is what you expect before trying to handle the data
    if (event.getIdentifier() != IDENTIFIER) {
        return;
    }

    ByteArrayDataInput in = ByteStreams.newDataInput(event.getData());
    // handle packet data
}
```
## Case 4: Sending a Plugin Message to a Player

> When you need to send a message to a player.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is for when you need to send a message to a player.
```

An example use might be instructing a client side mod to disable certain features.

```java
public boolean sendPluginMessageToPlayer(Player player, ChannelIdentifier identifier, byte[] data) {
    boolean success = player.sendPluginMessage(identifier, data);

>     return success;

Author: same as above
